Crosswalk for AWS 1.0 Blog Post (#2268)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/crosswalk-for-aws-1-0/index.md

One of our guiding lights for Pulumi has always been to help organizations to scale up the complexity, capability, and richness of what they can build in the cloud, and in specific on the AWS platform.  AWS offers an enormous number of powerful building block services, and organizations can stitch those building blocks together in countless ways to accomplish their needs.  Pulumi brings a variety of software engineering tools to bear to help with this - rich programming languages, IDE productivity, testing, policy, and fast iteration.  But none is more important than Pulumi’s focus on enabling the creation of [reusable infrastructure components](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/resources/components/) - higher level components that provide their own API interface built from the powerful building blocks of the underlying cloud resources.

> The Crosswalk for AWS libraries offer components that help address many of the most common use cases we’ve seen AWS users need to tackle - configuring the many components of their VPC network setup, running containers on Amazon ECS and Fargate, configuring a fully featured and production ready Amazon EKS Cluster, and setting up the infrastructure and functions needed as part of a Serverless architecture.  All with just a few lines of code that offers AWS best practices out of the box, while offering the ability to scale up into the full features of the AWS platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Crosswalk for AWS libraries offer components that help address many of the most common use cases we’ve seen AWS users need to tackle - configuring the many components of their VPC network setup, running containers on Amazon ECS and Fargate, configuring a fully featured and production ready Amazon EKS Cluster, and setting up the infrastructure and functions needed as part of a serverless architecture.  All with just a few lines of code that offers AWS best practices out of the box, while offering the ability to scale up into the full features of the AWS platform.
```

A few of the most significant components and libraries available in Crosswalk for AWS 1.0 are highlighted in the examples below, all available as part of Pulumi's [Architecture Templates](https://www.pulumi.com/templates/).

### Containers (ECS)

<img align="right" width="440" src="container.png">

Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) provides foundational services for running containers directly on the AWS platform, both against self-managed EC2 clusters, as well as in AWS Fargate’s managed serverless container platform.

The AWSX 1.0 package provides components that make it incredibly easy to take a container, or even just a folder with a `Dockerfile`, and run it in a production-ready environment in AWS.  And unlike some bespoke solutions for container deployment, with AWSX, configuring networking, load-balancing, secrets, managed databases, or anything else needed is just a few lines of code away.

> Our recently released [Container Service on AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/templates/container-service/aws/) template provides a great starting point for leveraging the AWSX 1.0 support for ECS, Fargate, ECR and ALB.,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our recently released [Container Service on AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/templates/container-service/aws/) template provides a great starting point for leveraging the AWSX 1.0 support for ECS, Fargate, ECR and ALB.
```

  repo:
    type: awsx:ecr:Repository
    options:
      version: 1.0.0-beta.10
  # Build and publish our application's container image from ./app to the ECR repository
  image:
    type: awsx:ecr:Image
    properties:
      repositoryUrl: ${repo.url}
      path: ./app
    options:
      version: 1.0.0-beta.10
  # Deploy an ECS Service on Fargate to host the application container
  service:
    type: awsx:ecs:FargateService
    properties:
      cluster: ${cluster.arn}
      taskDefinitionArgs:
        container:
          image: ${image.imageUri}
          cpu: ${cpu}
          memory: ${memory}
          essential: true
          portMappings:
          - containerPort: ${containerPort}
            targetGroup: ${loadbalancer.defaultTargetGroup}
    options:
      version: 1.0.0-beta.10

outputs:
  # The URL at which the container's HTTP endpoint will be available
  url: http://${loadbalancer.loadBalancer.dnsName}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% /chooser %}}

## Kubernetes (EKS)

<img align="right" width="440" src="kubernetes-cluster.png">

Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) offers a managed Kubernetes service for standing up a best practices Kubernetes cluster within AWS.

> The EKS 1.0 package offers support for configuring the many building blocks needed to configure a complete EKS cluster, across both AWS resoruces as well as in-cluster Kubernetes resources using Pulumi's narive `kubernetes` provider.  With `eks.Cluster`, `eks.NodeGroup`, `eks.NodeGroupV2` and `eks.ManagedNodeGroup` this package makes it easy to configure a cluster using any of the compute options available in AWS in just a few lines of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EKS 1.0 package offers support for configuring the many building blocks needed to configure a complete EKS cluster, across both AWS resources as well as in-cluster Kubernetes resources using Pulumi's native `kubernetes` provider.  With `eks.Cluster`, `eks.NodeGroup`, `eks.NodeGroupV2` and `eks.ManagedNodeGroup` this package makes it easy to configure a cluster using any of the compute options available in AWS in just a few lines of code.
```

      enableDnsHostnames: true
      cidrBlock: ${vpcNetworkCidr}
  # Create the EKS cluster
  eks-cluster:
    type: eks:Cluster
    properties:
      # Put the cluster in the new VPC created earlier
      vpcId: ${eks-vpc.vpcId}
      # Public subnets will be used for load balancers
      publicSubnetIds: ${eks-vpc.publicSubnetIds}
      # Private subnets will be used for cluster nodes
      privateSubnetIds: ${eks-vpc.privateSubnetIds}
      # Change configuration section above to change any of the following settings
      instanceType: ${eksNodeInstanceType}
      desiredCapacity: ${desiredClusterSize}
      minSize: ${minClusterSize}
      maxSize: ${maxClusterSize}
      # Do not give the worker nodes public IP addresses
      nodeAssociatePublicIpAddress: false
      # Uncomment next two lines for private cluster access (VPN access required)
      # endpointPrivateAccess: true
      # endpointPublicAccess: false
outputs:
  # Output the Kubeconfig for the cluster
  kubeconfig: ${eks-cluster.kubeconfig}
  vpcId: ${eks-vpc.vpcId}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% /chooser %}}

### Serverless (Lambda, API Gateway)

<img align="right" width="440" src="serverless.png">

> AWS Lambda and the serverless architectures it enables provider native support for event based compute triggered off of a wide variety of events from within the AWS platform. Coupled with services like AWS API Gateway, this offers eimple ways to serve HTTP-based APIs and muc, much more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS Lambda and the serverless architectures it enables provide native support for event based compute triggered off of a wide variety of events from within the AWS platform. Coupled with services like AWS API Gateway, this offers simple ways to serve HTTP-based APIs and much, much more.
```
